ladies and gentlemen Ted car tip number
one when it comes to life your
weaknesses don't matter don't focus on
what you're weak at and if you suck at
something don't worry about it delegate
it get someone else to do it second math
and use a calculator or pay a
mathematician if you're sucking drawing
paint artist if you if you suck at
cleaning your house pay a cleaning lady
if you suck at looking after your kids
pay a babysitter like focus on your
strengths guys like us to who could this
possibly be useful information for Ted
only people who are born rich on
permanent vacation and have absolutely
zero ambition in life
I assume that's that's people like you
tend to short and there are way too many
people who are really good at what you
suck at would love to do it you suck at
see wonders well get them to do a really
really good job at it while you go do a
really really good job what you're
really great at I don't believe in
focusing on your weaknesses and make
them greater I just believe on doing
like already good and just focusing on
those focus on those focus on those
focus on just focus on your strengths
Ted cars entire web presence so far as I
can see is an elaborate justification
for the fact that he has wasted his own
life potential he seems to be a man with
zero ambition zero interest in the
outside world zero human curiosity zero
capacity for self-improvement zero
mental focus zero ability to speak in
paragraphs or even form sentences
although he fancies himself a writer and
claims that he spent several hours a day
writing I shudder to think if the
quality of his writing is as bad as his
ability to speak English language I
searched high and low on the internet
for anything like a professional resume
a CV for this guy the only thing I could
find his own brief account of his
decision to drop out of university at
age 19 and how this is the best decision
he ever made for his life and
and this philosophy he's what he's
advocating is not even having any
ambition is not even having the courage
to try and to fail drop out now don't
try pardon fail later don't have any
ambition to accomplish anything in the
world and all of this is is pinned
against the wall it hangs on the rusty
[ __ ] nail the justification that what
you really ought to do with your life is
be happy what you really ought to be
concerned with is just your own joy your
own enjoyment of life and I disagree
with that so so fundamentally you know
III didn't know it started being this
video I didn't really know what
direction was going to take with this I
did not think I would feel so shocked so
horrified by the philosophy of dead car
for me to simplify slightly I've got to
tell you
morality is ambition that's a
catchphrase that's a slogan that's a
simplification but what do I mean
morality without ambition would not be
morality okay if I didn't have the
ambition to actually improve the
situation in Cambodia I wouldn't have
ever made the effort the long hours of
incredibly hard work to study the
Cambodian language very hard work
utterly thankless work work that had no
positive outcome etc etc right is there
a sense in which you can just sit in a
library in Canada and study the
Cambodian language or Cambodian history
Cambodian politics and be a moral person
I don't know maybe I want to tell you
for me morality without ambition is not
morality okay and a life without
ambition ultimately is a life with no
morals because a life without ambition
is going to be either a life of
self-indulgence or if you're trapped in
poverty it's going to just be a struggle
to survive which is for plenty of people
it's not for this car and I don't I
don't hate Ted Carr for being born red
I have to assume from the limited
information he's provided me about his
life
the Ted Carr is born rich and he is
spending money to somebody else earn
that's fine you know we have that in
common with Descartes Bruce Wayne you
know what the difference is between you
and Bruce Wayne ambition so many videos
so many you know that justify your
decision to not get an education to not
have a career to not have any ambition
to make the world a better place
none you know the one I just watch from
you is titled understanding your life
purpose in 60 seconds
great title unfortunately the video is 4
minutes and 33 seconds long the first
two minutes that video were the longest
two minutes of my life
Ted I mean you know Ted cars manifesto
for the unexamined life of short-term
pleasures and self look and Ted I you
know what it is partly that to me he
looks like an old man I thought he was
40 just just based on appearance I
thought Ted Carr was 40 but you know
what also Ted the philosophy you're
spouting is such an old man's philosophy
it's the kind of garbage
I heard from men in Thailand who unlike
myself another men who were just waiting
to die men who had no ambition to make a
positive difference in the world you
know it is sad it's sad that in Western
culture ambition is so much linked to
just earning money my ambitions had
nothing to do with earning money during
that time my life but I mean when I
lived in Thailand when I lived in
Cambodia I had to say to people again
and again look because other people
would invite me to go do things that I
consider waste time things for just for
enjoyment for the doors long I've said
look I'm sorry I'm not on vacation you
know maybe you are or maybe this is how
you live your life is an expat I mean
I'm out here I have real goals there
things I'm trying to accomplish study
the language study the history what I
was trying to do in terms of
humanitarian work and a lot of those
things are failures you know I mean ten
cars message is just live your life for
your own self indulgence for your own
enjoyment
don't even try don't even fail you know
I would I would feel very hesitant to
recommend anyone have ambition go out
and fail there's a lot of suffering
involved there's a lot of misery you
know if you have those ambitions you
want to make the world a better place
and you know you try so hard and one
venture after another fails I think the
kind of sorrow that comes from that is
much much worse than the sorrow that
comes from a failed business venture
when something's just about money so
just about money I think it's pretty
straightforward
psychologically an emotion so well I
tried to start that pizza restaurant
didn't work out it turns out the market
for vegan pizza is only a few thousand
people whatever you know you you fill
out your tax forms and you move on and
for me there are all kinds of little
small ambitions I had within the big
ambitions where the fact that I couldn't
carry them out you know haunts me there
was one woman I knew in Laos obviously
an elderly woman from the story I'm
about to tell she directly witnessed you
know atrocities of war horrible things
beyond comprehension she had a story
that'll stay with me forever bunch of
stories I mean this woman had to run
away from her home as a child during
what's called the American War over
there she actually do escape from Laos
up into the mountains that are on the
border between Laos and Vietnam she the
only education she got at that age was
literally in a cave um you know a
chalkboard in a cave and you know she
got to see some bizarre and amazing
things but you know including airplanes
and helicopters shooting people to death
in that in that war and I do mean
shooting not bombing by the way people
to death and you know talking to her she
knew me for about two years before she
opened up and told me that stuff you
know she knew me for like two years and
she told me stuff and at that time I was
working really hard to learn the
language and I said to her look I'm
going away now to do humanitarian work
in the field I was doing a job that's
the only Java pad which is humanitarian
in that strictest sense was a job that
involved and included sacks of rice
being handed to starving people so
humanitarian work in a narrow sense a
lot of other work I did was humanitarian
in a broader perhaps direct sense
I said look and one of the field through
this humanitarian work when I come back
I'm going to understand the Lao language
even better
going to be way better and my ability
uses language and what I really want to
do is record your story write it down
and publish it as a short book you know
just interview you about what happened
during this time line so that people
know this history and they know it from
that human perspective okay now I never
got to do that because when I was out
doing the humanitarian work members the
government threatened to kill me take me
out of the country it's a story I've
told part of on this channel I didn't
tell the part that comes after the death
threats but you know my humanitarian
work ended with a bang ended with me
being exiled with nothing but my
backpack and my bicycle and having to
find a whole new life and the years of
hard work I put into Lao language now
suddenly seem like they were for nothing
because I could never I was told I could
never go back into the country that if I
went back in the country my life would
be in danger
you know that I could be killed or what
have you if you've just spent two and a
half years studying the Lao language and
Lao history and Lao politics you've got
a body of knowledge that's useful
absolutely nowhere
aside from Laos so if the government of
Laos is take you up says you can't come
back all your humanitarian oceans are at
nan and so on
um but every minute I spent during those
years was animated by ambition and not
ambition to make money and not a you
know ambition of some kind you know and
I believe me I'm extremely self-critical
I think many of my ambitions were stupid
and jejune and led to my own
self-destruction they were bad for me
and now now that I have a daughter I
didn't back then I was single you know
in a very real sense they're bad for my
family they're bad for my economic
situation I was not born rich I do not
have the luxury of just pursuing that
kind of thing and then saying oh well
and moving on to the next venture really
disasters for me in terms of my
financial situation the kind of jobs had
to take after that I was mean again
unlike so again unlike other people in
the museum industry unlike other people
in the charity industry for me this was
not a hobby this is my only income and I
desperately needed the income I got
doing that kind of humanitarian work
and one of those jobs paid me like us
$300 per month these are truly
humanitarian wages so if you're if
you're born rich you can do that in the
payment is symbolic if you're not born
rich and you actually need to live on
that it's a little different game but
look I mean there's a kind of morality
even to what I was doing during the long
hours I spent in archives with books
studying history and languages but the
morality doesn't come from the act
itself I mean sitting at that desk and
studying so seriously so ferociously
there's a sense in which it's no
different from sitting in the same
library and wasting time playing video
games your computer or kind of dragging
your ass and doing the bare minimum to
research an assignment for university
for course that doesn't interest you
there's a sense in which what you do in
the library is no is no different the
difference comes from the ambition you
know the ambition to make a difference
in addition to make to change the world
in some way you know and I mean I got to
tell you I mean I guess that's the sense
in which I find Ted Carr's philosophy so
disturbing in some ways more disturbing
than durianrider
I really have to tell you I guess I find
it so disturbed because even though I
keep saying like my my expectations are
low of my fellow vegans yes when I look
at my fellow vegans I expect them to
have that ambition to change the world
in terms of ecology in terms of animal
rights it's deeply disturbing to me to
see veganism tied to what I used to call
the permanent vacation lifestyle
permanent vacation philosophy and in
this case feel like I even need a new a
new term for it a life totally defined
in terms of self-indulgence morality is
ambition that's a catchphrase that's a
slogan that's a simplification but what
do I mean morality without ambition
would not be more